President Barack Obama [Unlink] has asked Tuesday to 3.700 billion U.S. Congress to deal with the arrival of tens of thousands of immigrant children from Central America. The money should serve to reinforce the presence of judges and officers in the border regions, increase aerial surveillance drone or drones, build detention centers for undocumented immigrants and increase cooperation with their countries of origin. The objective is to accelerate the deportation of unaccompanied children who entered the run, in many cases, violence in their countries and attracted by rumors, encouraged by the mafias that transport, they may stay in the U.S. without problems. The White House defines the wave of immigrant children as a humanitarian crisis. Matches the blockade, in Congress, the immigration bill that would open the way to stabilize and ultimately citizens about seven million illegal immigrants living in this country. The GOP majority in the House of Representatives, announced that the law will not vote this year. Before blocking the law, Democrat Obama wants to find an alternative way to reform the system through executive orders. The funding request to Congress can come up with resistors left and right. "The problem is no humanitarian crisis. The problem is a broken immigration system, "he says by phone Democrat Joe Garcia, a member of the House of Representatives for South Florida. "Move to the judges to the border to prosecute or deport children should not be the priority. The priority should be to fix a broken immigration system. And we are putting a piece of tape to hold the dam is falling. It makes no sense. " The president will be on Wednesday and Thursday in the state of Texas, whose border with Mexico is the arrival point for many of the illegal immigrants. Do not include a visit to the border in their agenda. Obama's proposal does not include a review of a 2008 law adopted in the final weeks of the Bush administration, which prevents automatic deportation whenever minors are not citizens of countries bordering the United States. This means that more than 52,000 children that U.S. authorities have registered since last October will be subjected to a process that can take months and years and it does not have to lead to expulsion. During this period, and pending that its status is resolved, children can be reunited with their families, if they reside in the U.S., or with host families, and lead a more or less normal life in this country. Since the law does not allow the immediate expulsion, the White House proposes to "significantly reduce" the time it takes the process of deportation of children who do not qualify for refugee status. "Many of these children are victims of two bad options. Be subject to criminal or taking risky to see their parents in the United States to stay with them international travel gangs, "says Congressman Garcia. "Looking at these two options understand how many parents opt for illegality on another." "First you have to secure the border and ensure that no keep coming," proposes. "But once they are here I think makes all the sense in the world that a child should be with his parents. If we have an immigration system that will work is where they would be. "